the next step is that I take a variety
of tools and I round and shape the neck
to the eventual profile that it will
have and I use a number of processes for
this I'll show those in a bit that's
that's the rounding process I work on
the neck and I work on the body wings as
far as I can when they're by themselves
because I can clearly it's so easy to
put this in a vise and work on it when
it's by itself without having to work
around the body wings so that's why I do
all this shaping I've drilled the holes
for the tuning pegs here's where that
wrench goes in for the truss rod it's
all it's all a unit ready to go so here
I'm ready to do some rounding with the
rasp I'm normally I'd be wearing this
paper mask obviously I can't talk with
it on but I wear this all the time and I
keep air circulating all the time
through filters when I'm doing this sort
of thing so I don't breathe it these are
great gloves the they're pretty
lightweight but they're strong rubber on
the face and when I use something like
really coarse sandpaper or a rasp like
this it really keeps from chewing up
your hands so what I've got here I have
just banned sod some rough angles and
now I'm going to come in and start
rounding
now the the bandsaw cut that I made
along here is pretty accurate and I took
time to make it pretty much the
thickness that I want the neck to be and
very much straight so I'm going to avoid
I can tell because of the saw marks you
know when I get to - rasping in this
area
I'm not going to rasp I'm going to rasp
right up to this centerline and not not
take this down any farther than that
even though it may seem like gee that's
taken that's going to take a while to do
that it actually goes pretty fast this
takes off material pretty quickly but it
also gives me time to think
something about rasping I'm thinking
about the next steps that I'm going to
do on a bass guitar so the fact that I
don't have a computer operated machine
carving this out it doesn't to me
thinking and relaxing and enjoying some
of these phases as part of the creative
process of making something I don't
object to that at all now after I've
done that for a bit I may set the neck
up on edge and one of the things I took
me a while to learn this but the the
fretboard itself is part is part of the
the shaping that you're going to do for
a while I round it up and then I left
the fretboard squared off no it should
be all be part of the same arc so I'm
going to I'll come into the fretboard
ways as I'm shaping and when it's up on
this angle I can see much more clearly
I'm doing
and as I shape there are different
profiles that people like in a fret in
the neck sometimes people like a large
flat area across the back so you kind of
round flat and round to the other side
other people like a continuous oval so I
would take more material out of this
edge so that I can do the full rounding
and at some point I'm I'm not even
looking at it anymore I'm just feeling
it I just go back and forth and it
becomes more and more clear to me when
it's right and I'll go over it and over
it and over it until working gradually
with a it's pretty surprising how
squared off that site is and how
completely rounded this is after what a
minute and a half of shaping it goes
really quickly then
in the interest of time I'll just jump
ahead I would end up using a finer rasp
so I'm not changing the shape that much
at this point I'm just smoothing getting
rid of the deep gouge marks finally when
I get to my my finest sandpaper I'll do
some hand sanding to really make it just
to make sure that I've got everything
it's all feel at that point and and I do
it until the the arc is all complete and
it's all as smooth as I think I can get
at that point and then it's time to glue
this to the buck to the body wings and
and then I can do the final shaping of
the contour where the neck goes into the
body